and so what i respect so much about the
players is to like step into this arena
which is like not designed for victory
it's an arena that's designed for
failure
so welcome
how's everybody doing today
welcome to another um healthy gamer gg
stream my name is olo kanojo i'm a
psychiatrist practicing in boston this
chat box is big i'm going to move this
over a little bit
just a reminder that everything we
discuss on stream today is intended to
be for educational purposes only and
nothing is intended to be taken as
medical advice
so if you guys have a question please go
see a licensed professional
uh
okay
so just a couple of announcements so for
those of you who don't know
um
dr k has been out for a couple of weeks
uh i had the privilege of
accompanying evil geniuses to the
international
um which was quite the experience and
today i'm gonna share with you guys what
that was like
yeah so today we're gonna be talking a
little bit about just the experience of
being a ti
and a couple of like important lessons
that i learned and um we may be talking
more about this
in depth uh over the next few weeks like
we i'm gonna be sharing some of the the
key things and like more applicable
stuff
about um kind of performance and and how
to manage confidence and doubt and all
that kind of stuff
so um
yeah so we'll hopefully we'll like put
that together a little bit today i just
wanted to kind of check in with y'all
and uh hang out with chat some
so yeah
a couple of other uh
a couple of other
notes um so next week we're not gonna be
on a regular stream schedule
we've got um
we've got another project super secret
project that we're working on at hg
which uh hopefully we may stream so i
think we're gonna be around on monday
for austin show and then after that
we're gonna be
out probably for the rest of the week
and then we'll resume a regular sleep a
streaming schedule starting in november
a couple of other things that people are
kind of curious about
so um here at healthy gamer we do a lot
of stuff for gamers but then we also do
a lot of stuff for parents of gamers so
uh you know we'll sometimes get requests
from parents who are like hey my son is
like oh like they're having problems and
you know they're not doing things and
um
you know like they play too many video
games and then they'll be like they'll
ask us like hey can you like can i
enroll my son in your coaching program
and we'll be like well if he wants to
come he's more than welcome to
but you can't enroll him what you can do
is enroll yourself in our parent
coaching program
and then they say well no i'm not the
one with the problem my kid is the one
with the problem and that's where we're
like well we're not so sure we agree
with that
so we are actually going to be um
launching more parent coaching spots on
november 11th so some of that we may
actually try to do like some content uh
around parents
and so be prepared for that so like we
may have some parent and family related
questions people who are in
relationships with gamers and things
like that
so um you know we're i i think it's
actually something that we don't really
do a whole lot on stream which is
actually a lot of fun i really enjoy
working with parents i really enjoy
helping parents sort of better
communicate and understand their kids
and also helping like parents work on
themselves because a lot of times the
the problems that children have will be
like related to like parents
um so you know hopefully we'll we'll
do a little bit more of that and kind of
support
um you know parent-child relationships
in terms of like communicating but
understanding each other and things like
that
i need to enroll yeah so good luck with
my mom i need to enroll my wife exactly
so that's what we try to do so i know
it's kind of unorthodox i know it's a
little bit uh weird right because like
we're healthy gamer but i do think that
um
a big part of
what you all struggle with as gay or
what we struggle with as gamers like
it's not just us right there's a lot of
things in our lives there are a lot of
relationships that we have
sometimes we have toxic influences and
like working on that side is like really
important too
you can enroll joe mama that's the one
exception
um
dr k's guide to secret projects okay so
let's start talking about ti
all right so for those of you that don't
know there is an esport called dota 2
and every year they have or most years
anyway
they have a major tournament called the
international and the international is
the largest esports prize pool like
basically every year so this year it was
like a 45 million dollar prize pool and
you've got 16 to 18 teams i think that
are competing
um every year
and so i had uh the honor of
accompanying evil geniuses
um
to the international and we had been
working together for actually the whole
year so we'll talk about that in a
second
but here's like the first thing so i've
done a lot of work in esports but i have
never accompanied an actual team and
like you know
been with them
intensively for
such a large tournament i mean i guess
theoretically it's you know ti's the
biggest tournament of the year in
esports in general
and boy like the experience is like
absolutely wild so the first thing that
like i was very surprised about is i've
had i've been in a lot of like stressful
situations so like there's this slight
trigger warning around physical stuff
i'm like like people being sick but so i
remember when i was an intern in
residency we had one code and if you
guys don't know what a code is a code is
like what you guys see on tv when people
pull out the paddles and stuff it's like
basically when someone's like
you know like in kind of some kind of
like uh ventricular fibrillation or
something like that so like their heart
isn't working
and or their heart stops beating and
then you have to like do chest
compressions and stuff
so these are like really stressful
things like you get you know like the
the pa over in the hospital is like code
blue code blue room whatever and then
there's like a swarm of people that run
into the room and i remember there was
this one particular code where there was
someone who had a problem with their
heart and i was doing like chest
compressions and like you know the the
movies don't show you this but like a
very common thing that happens when
people like or you know you're doing
chest compressions on people is you'll
do like in like
you have to
cause the heart to beat right or not
beat but you're like squeezing blood out
of the heart that's literally what
you're doing so sometimes like you know
what they would tell us in residency is
it's okay to crack a rib to like save a
life so you have to like push down
really hard
the other thing that they don't really
tell you is that oftentimes when you're
doing chest compressions people will
start to vomit
i'm not sure why but so i remember like
very distinctly probably the most
intensive code that i ever had ever been
a part of
um was like one where i was doing chest
compressions like the person was like
vomiting on me and it was like just
awful and disgusting very very high
stress i've been in other stressful
situations like
you know
acute suicidality um my wife giving
birth to kids like just really high
stress stuff
and
nothing compare like that doesn't even
compare at all to the experience of like
being a ti the amount of stress and
pressure i'm not even playing
and like the amount of stress and
pressure that these people deal with
like on a daily and hourly basis is
absurd
like it's hard to describe but you can
feel like the pressure in the air and
i've been in tense situations like i've
been in you know board rooms where
people are like arguing and like ceos
are about to get fired and like super
awkward stuff right like very
challenging things like being yelled at
in the emergency room when someone who's
like rich and powerful is going to sue
you because
you know their son relapsed again or
whatever like there have been a lot of
stressful situations i've been in but
like ti is just a whole different
experience it is hands down the most
stressful experience of my life
and i wasn't even playing
so and the first thing that i kind of
want to like say is like it's absurd so
what i would describe the feeling as is
any time that your team is playing right
so i'm in in like a separate room with
um you know eg's coach and and we're
watching the game
and like when you're watching them play
the other thing that i was kind of
surprised about is like ti wasn't fun i
was expecting to have fun like i went
and and watched ti live in in at ti-8 so
this was like three years ago and it was
like a blast it was like one of the most
enjoyable experiences of my life but
being a part of the tournament is just
so incredibly nerve-wracking it's like
it's it's terrible like it the pressure
is so bad so what i would describe it
the closest feeling that i've ever had
is i remember a couple of weeks ago one
of my kids was um playing on a
trampoline and they fell off the
trampoline and so as a parent like i'm
15 feet away and i see her like falling
and i see her like you know because the
trampoline's elevated right so she falls
off
and then there's this moment where like
as a parent you're not sure if they're
okay or not you see the fall happen time
kind of slows down you run over to the
kid
and then like you know when they get up
and they're they're like you know
they're not hurt and nothing's bleeding
and or whatever like you feel this
immense amount of relief it's like this
very intense tension where you don't
know like oh my god did my kid really
just hurt themselves or are they okay
then you run over and then you see them
like and they're fine and then you get
like this relief that washes through you
that whole experience lasts like two
seconds like literally it lasts like two
seconds right they fall you can cross 15
feet like pretty damn quick and you can
see like they they get up and they're
not crying or whatever right it's like
two to three seconds
being a ti is like that two to three
seconds for like hours at a time because
when you're actually watching a game
like you never know right like someone
could throw someone could like
these people like because you can see
the whole map and like you know that
your players can't and so you know what
the other team is doing you know they're
like smoke ganking or you know that like
like someone's farming under a ward or
you you realize like oh my god like the
enemy's sneaking roche is the team gonna
realize it are they gonna are they gonna
figure it out are they not gonna figure
it out like you know someone screwed up
and they they spent one of their
cooldowns like how are they gonna take
the fight like now is the time that they
need to take the fight because the stuff
is on cooldown for the enemy team like
it's just this constant feeling of like
you don't know what's gonna happen
it's like watching like it's you just
don't know
and when you win like you're not happy
like that was the other thing that was
really really surprising like sometimes
people are happy when they win
but
most of the time it's not like happy
it's just relief it's like there's no
there's no positive emotion it's just
tons and tons of pressure and negative
emotion followed by like oh thank god we
didn't screw it up
right and and so it's like it's just
mind-numbingly stressful
so i i think that was like really
educational for me in terms of you know
just not wrecking like the pressure is
just overwhelming
so the other thing that i want to say is
like the players are absolutely amazing
so these are some of the most resilient
individuals i have ever met and i i
think especially about some of these
folks like um because they do this right
game after game tournament after
tournament like year after year they
sign themselves up for you know you
practice for like
hours weeks months right you're playing
pubs you're scrimming you're you're you
know even like doing stuff with dr k
like you're doing everything you can
you're talking about the game you're
thinking about the game
and then in a moment like it could all
like it could be for nothing because you
just lose right and like then the game
is over
and so what these people do is they like
sign up for this experience like game
after game
tournament after tournament like year
after year i i think uh isis ice has
been to nine tis and like just the
amount of resilience
you have to have to go to wake up every
day and like do this over and over and
over again
when success is
not only not guaranteed it is
statistically unlikely
right because at the end of the day
90 players go to ti and five of them win
and 85 of them lose
it's the way that the game is designed
to be ti is designed not to make winners
but to make losers
and this is something that i think
people like especially fans like when
you you know you criticize and stuff
which we'll get to that in a second
i don't think people really appreciate
that this is a game that year after year
these players are signing up for and
like
loss is almost certain
right it's crazy you have you have like
a 90 chance of losing like that's just
what it is
and and it it's it's the amount of
strength and internal fortitude that it
takes to
show up and play this game like over and
over and over again is like it's it's
amazing like these are some of the most
resilient people i've ever played with
or i've not played with but like work
with
um
so like what i mean by resilience is if
you kind of think about it like you know
every time you go to a tournament like
you just don't know what's gonna happen
and the amount of like faith that you
have to develop in yourself the amount
of uncertainty that you have to deal
with
you know it's just it's so crushing
and like you just have to develop such a
core of internal strength
to like tolerate that you know it's kind
of hard but
in real life like chances are you're
gonna end up okay if you keep trying
right if you think about like
relationships for example so sure like
any individual relationship may have a
small amount of chance of like like
working out but at the end of the day
like most human beings end up in
somewhat of healthy happy relationships
most human beings end up with some
amount of like you know success within
their career in their job most human
beings end up like you know if you play
a video game like if you purchase a
video game you're gonna like have some
fun playing it right like most of normal
life
is like
is like leans towards success i know we
kind of talk a lot about how people
struggle with failure and things like
that but at the end of the day like most
human beings are like doing okay
when you get up and you go to work
there's not like a 90 chance that you're
gonna be fired at the end of the day
right when you go out on a date or let's
say you're dating someone like 90 of
marriages don't end up in divorce right
so i think it's just really it's
it was very eye-opening to see how
incredibly resilient these people are
and how much the deck is actually
stacked against them because it
absolutely is
so
the next thing that i kind of want to
talk about is that so i'm going to talk
for a second about eg's performance over
the year
and i think there's like a lot of
lessons to be learned i learned a lot so
it was a very educational experience to
me and i think it was interesting to see
you know what principles do i personally
try to live by do i advocate that sort
of apply to ti what amount of you know
psychology or like principles of like
how to live your life like apply to ti
and so i think um the next thing that i
want to talk about is just the season as
a whole so i worked with eg over the
course of the year which you know a lot
of people don't know
and i think overall like i'm i'm really
proud of the team so i think that
the team is super
is understandably like disappointed in
their ti performance and i think people
are disappointed in eg and things like
that and i also felt some degree of
disappointment
but i think this is like really
important in life is that like you know
if you really look at their season like
they had a good season right so they
they made it to uh you know they
made it to the grand finals of two
majors
you can also say oh they didn't win a
single major but i think they were
number one in the dpc league which means
that if you look at their performance
across the year it was like very very
strong
and this is kind of the problem with ti
is that ti is an esport where the only
thing that matters is or dota is an
esport where the only thing that matters
is ti so i'm going to give you guys just
how an analogy to illustrate like how
bizarre of a situation this actually is
so let's say i'm a surgeon and i'm
operating on like the president of the
united states or like the prime minister
of you know my country or whatever
and if like if that patient dies on the
surgery table like is that bad
absolutely
but it doesn't invalidate the thousand
lives that i saved before that one
experience right
it's certainly bad and it's certainly
important you can even argue that like
that person who's on the table in that
moment is more important than people who
have come before it
but esports and especially dota is the
one place where it doesn't matter how
good of a job you do prior to ti
it just doesn't matter
it's it's an
eggs in one like all of your eggs in one
basket like
in it to an absurd level so i think one
of the key things that i kind of took
away from this experience and what i
tried to you know help the players
understand which they may not they may
not understand and it may not be an
issue of understanding right because
this is their life
um but i think it's important to be like
okay at being disappointed in yourself
and also like to be able to feel pride
at the same time
so you know the way that i feel about my
ti experience is overwhelmingly i'm
proud of eg i'm proud of what they've
accomplished and i understand that
they're disappointed i felt some
disappointment too
but it's like it's really important in
life to recognize that even when you
don't do something that you really
wanted to do or the results that you
were shooting for are disappointed that
you be able to take pride in like other
stuff as well because the truth is is
that eg has a lot to be proud of right i
mean they they had generally speaking a
stellar season if you look at it by any
objective measure
any sort of like truly rational measure
they did fantastic
so they made it to ti which you know
let's remember that like a lot of good
teams actually didn't make it to ti this
year
um you know they had a disappointing
performance at ti sure
but at the end of the day like they
played some really really awesome dota
and so i think it's important that like
you know in life like it's okay to be
disappointed in what you do it's okay to
be like not happy with your performance
but be careful and remember that just
because you're not happy or it's okay to
be disappointed in like the most recent
thing doesn't mean that you don't
deserve to feel some amount of pride in
like what you've done prior to that day
and and like i said i respect these
players so much because you know a lot
of people
say that eg sort of has disappointing
performances
that they kind of i think if you look at
it statistically maybe lgd or eg
is the most
is the winningest team in in maybe the
history of dota so if you look at like
the average placement that eg has had
over the last like three or four years i
think they could be number one or number
two so they have very very consistent
results they play really really solid
dota year after year tournament after
tournament
and game after game
and at the end of the day
that's not enough right because the dota
is an esport where the only thing that
matters is one tournament so it's kind
of interesting because people will also
complain about the prize pool and
they'll say like you know the prize pool
for the majors is like tiny it's like
five hundred thousand dollars and the
like the the prize pool for ti is 45
million dollars and you can you can
complain about that if you want to but
let's remember that
you know it's it's kind of interesting
because it's like it's just an esport
that is designed to create tons and tons
of losers and like one huge winner
so in when you're faced with those kinds
of circumstances it can be really really
hard to have faith in yourself it can be
really really hard to persevere
you know giving up is very easy to do
when there's basically one tournament
that matters
it also makes it really really hard to
practice throughout the year right
because at the end of the day like who
the hell cares if you made it to the
grand finals of like two
majors in a row and like if you guys
look at ig's performance for example so
they won the first major and then i
think they got like knocked out pretty
early in the second major and then lgd
won the second major and they made it to
the grand finals
of the ti
and then like you know the amount of
flames and hate that lgd is getting is
like astronomical
and so that's just the nature of the
beast and so what i respect so much
about the players is to like step into
this arena which is like not designed
for victory it's an arena that's
designed for failure
and so that's tough
um and it can be very very hard to be
proud and feel some degree of like pride
in your accomplishments because you
genuinely do have a lot to be
proud of i think eg has a lot to be
proud of i'm very proud of it
but it's hard
and
i think you know for those of you at
home like i encourage you to think a
little bit about that as well like it's
okay to be disappointed in yourself
but there are things that you can
probably still be proud of and it's very
hard to feel that pride right it's not
easy it's like because you're so
overwhelmed by the disappointment of the
moment that it becomes hard to be
objective
so that's kind of
you know because i i think the other
thing that i'd kind of say is that like
in this way dota is like real life
because if you look at it like you know
there are a handful of billionaires
right those are like the ti winners
and for every billionaire out there
there's like you know millions or tens
of millions of people who
[Music]
you know
don't have a whole lot of money
and so in life you can also say that
like for every one winner there's like
10 000 losers
i think for every you know one winner
for every
one team that wins ti like 18 teams lose
ti and not to mention the 60 somewhat
teams that are like tier two and like
competing in tournaments and like didn't
make it to ti and all that kind of stuff
right so there are tons of teams out
there that are sort of destined to lose
because that's just the nature of the
beast
so
you know it's it's tough but that's what
it is and i think what what the real
testament to strength is and what i
really respect eg for is like picking
themselves off the mat and like trying
again and trying again and trying again
uh that doesn't even mention you know
not even to think a little bit about the
toxicity that a lot of the players face
right so i know that especially like you
know reddit and stuff like that we're
going to talk about this in a second
everyone likes to analyze like what
happens at ti so let's talk about that
so
oh man there's so much to say okay
so i want you guys to think about this
for a second okay
what determines whether
a team wins or loses a particular game
of dota
right like what goes into it like what
do you think actually like goes into it
and the really shocking thing is that if
you look at these actual games and like
i'll ask y'all i'm gonna assume that you
guys know about you know what happened
at ti and stuff
but if you guys think like if lgd and
let's say that lgdm team spirit there's
like a thousand alternate universes
what percentage of the time do you think
in those thousand alternate universes
what what number like what's the
percentage that you guys think team
spirit would have won and what's the
percentage that you think lgd would have
won
right so people are saying like 75 lgd
90 lgd 50 50 20 lgd so here's the the
first thing to understand about like
dota 2 tournaments dota 2 tournaments
are not designed to have the best team
win
and you can definitely argue i mean
there's a lot of good arguments against
that right like you could say well
clearly like the team that has the
mindset and whatever they're the ones
that that win the best and i'm not
saying that the teams that
one don't deserve to win what i'm saying
is that the the tournament is designed
for entertainment not to actually like
scientifically assess which team is the
most superior
do you guys get that like that's why
they have best of ones
so i'm not saying eg is the best team by
the way and it's not copio i'm just
saying it like you know in science when
we're trying to find a particular answer
what we'll do is like we'll do a
randomized controlled trial with like 10
000 subjects so that we can really
figure out what is responsible and what
isn't
so dota is a is a game that's designed
or at least tournaments are designed to
be spectator sports and if you think
about all of the alternate universes
that it exists
what percentage of the time would you
guys say that team spirit would win and
say that lgd would win
and we're seeing a variety of answers my
point is you know my point first and
foremost is that it's complicated
so one thing i came to understand about
dota 2 is it is way way way more
complicated than i ever understood
and so like i think the biggest thing
about dota is that it
it seems very easy to understand when
you're watching a game like
why you lose a game and if you guys want
to understand this like you know have a
2k mmr player like myself analyze a
replay and then like you know we can say
oh like you know this we lost because
this person fed we lost because mid
didn't rotate we lost because of this
and then if you take like a 6k mmr
player and then you have them analyze
the replay the answers that they're
going to come up with are going to be
different from the 2k mmr players and
then if you have a 10k mmr player like
when they
analyze a 6k mmr player like they're
gonna come up with different answers and
then you have 12 kmr players who are
going to come up with even more
different answers and so i think if you
look at like you know what goes into
winning or losing a game of dota this is
the super fascinating thing about it
dota is one of these things where
hindsight is anything but 2020.
so we have this saying right we toss
around the same lot which i'm gonna
dispute in a second that hindsight is 20
20.
i don't think hindsight is 20 20 in dota
so if you look at like if you really
talked to and this is one of the
privileges i had right so i i had the
option to talk to some of the best
dota players in the world
and like ask them why did you win this
game or why did you lose this game
and the truth is that like it's very
hard to tell
right it's like it's it's so hard to
tell and and i know for example like i
you know being able to watch ti with top
tier players was also like very very
educational because there are a bunch of
people who have you know been knocked
out who are still really good at the
game and so being able to like you know
watch games with them and talk to them
about who do you think is gonna win and
also like you'll get two two players
that are like both very very good and i
can ask them the same question based on
the draft and like you know the skills
of the team and things like that and
like who do you think is gonna win is
like it's still like up in the air
so there are so many factors that go
into you know a game of dota that it's
really really hard to tell because
neither team is going to play perfectly
right so like they're not open ai
so you know why did you win there are
some games that you should win which you
end up losing in some games that you
should lose that you end up winning
and so there's so many things that go
into it the draft the timings you know
rotations
the the macro strategy
part of what i really love about dota is
that there isn't a right answer when it
comes to dota it's it's truly like a
clash of ideas and philosophies so it's
really interesting to see you know how
different teams will play like their
macro strategy and what they believe in
they're going to be like meta heroes and
non-meta heroes and things like that but
like it was really interesting i mean i
really loved it because one of the
things that i came to understand which i
don't see anyone really talking about
like when i read dota 2
threads about you know why people are
winning or losing is like the high level
strategic thinking that goes into
the draft so i think like 99 of posts
that i've i've looked at like don't have
a clue how people actually draft and
what they draft around um and and so you
know a lot of people can kind of say
like just ban magnus against ts so let
me just give you guys an example so i'm
in that camp by the way for the record
but
let me give you guys so let me ask you a
question okay
so
what do you think gives you a greater
chance of beating ts
is it banning magnus
or having a a strategy that successfully
counters magnus
what do y'all think
see this is the really interesting thing
right because if a team
has a bedrock like a foundation
and you have figured out a way to
counter that foundation letting them
pick it
and then countering it could give you a
better option at actually winning the
game
right so so and this is where like if
you look at everyone kind of saying this
is exactly my point so some people are
saying ban it some people are saying
counter it some people are saying you
can't counter it
and so this is like this question
is impossible to answer
so you can have lots of opinions about
it and so like like this is just the one
example of you know you'll see like
different philosophies so i think like
secret is a good team that
has faith in itself to be able to
counter strategies and if you kind of
think about it like what they'll do is
they'll say like uh
yeah so lg did did counter at game three
and four exactly right so so this is
what happens like if you're lgd like in
game three you know what you decide to
do is you're like okay go ahead and pick
magnus and then like you know what
they're gonna do you know what their
play is gonna be and if you're
successful in countering it you're
actually at it
at an advantage compared to if you just
ban it and don't let them play it right
you kind of draw them into their
strategy that they're comfortable with
and then you smash them because you have
the appropriate counter that's just one
example
okay of like you know one hero
where it's like arguably speaking like a
pretty simple sort of thing like because
collapse is really good at magnus
but the thing is when you're really
looking at dota that's just one example
there's
hundreds there's like over 100 heroes
there are tons of different players do
you play your dota or do you try to
counter their dota and in that sense
that too from a drafting perspective
it's like how do you want to draft do
you want a draft for your game or do you
want a draft to counter pick their game
do you go first pick or do you go second
pick you know so many of these different
factors come in and then once again
like it's not just about the draft right
because like you'll see
um
you know once you actually get into the
game
and then like let's say you drafted what
you thought was a good theoretical
counter and it doesn't end up succeeding
so then the question is like did you not
execute it properly because you know the
player who's let's say playing rubik was
rusty and hadn't played rubik in a while
like was your strategy the problem was
was were you is or is your
execution the problem and that's another
example of like an impossible question
to answer
so dota is one of these things where the
more i learned about the game i realized
that there's like a massive amount of
like dunning krueger going on where
everyone can look at the last five
minutes of the game and say like oh they
should have you know like the carrie
just got too farmed it's gg but how did
the carry get farmed when did the carry
get farmed why weren't they ganked were
they ganked or was it that like you know
the the team did a good job of
protecting them or like what are all of
the reasons that go into it
you know and so hindsight is anything
but 2020. and i would sit there for you
know hours and hours and hours and talk
to
dota players about specifically eg right
like you know when you guys lose a game
or win a game like what are the reasons
for your win and what are the reasons
for your loss
and at the end of the day people can
come up with opinions and you have to
have faith in those opinions
but i think that like it's staggering
because there's no gold standard in dota
and that's what's really bizarre is that
in in the rest of the world like we tend
to have objective answers right when you
take a test there's an answer key so you
can know objectively whether you're
right or wrong
like even in medicine if i suspect
someone has covid i can do a test and
determine objectively whether i'm right
or wrong
in dota there's just so much uncertainty
you never know what the right answer is
you just all you have is your judgment
but there's no such thing as an answer
key there's no such thing as a biopsy
sure you can watch the replay and you
can come up with conclusions but at the
end of the day hindsight is anything but
2020.
and this is also where i think like for
those of you all at home i think it's
really important to understand this
principle because i think most human
beings will go around believing that
hindsight is 20 20 when in truth it's
anything but
so i'll give you guys just one example
so i was working with someone who was
interested in getting married
and so they were dating this one person
for a while and that you know the
relationship fell apart dating a second
person for a while and the relationship
fell apart third person fourth person so
they had four sort of serious
relationships over the course of let's
say three or four years
and every everyone every time something
falls apart and i would ask the person
okay why did your relationship fall
apart and they said okay well you know
the person just prioritized their career
like they weren't willing to you know
their career was more important than the
relationship so we decided to break up
okay totally fine
um what happened with the second person
well the second person had daddy issues
so you know they just like
you know had daddy issues and it was
like a problem and and so like you know
they had to work on themselves before
they were ready for a relationship
completely reasonable
third relationship why did the
relationship fall apart well this person
had a problem like they were they they
were an alcoholic and like the drinking
was just super out of control
and so like you know
that's the reason the relationship fell
apart and what's the fourth reason the
relationship fell apart well i don't
know like we just kind of drifted apart
um you know they got kind of busy with
work i kind of got busy with work and
things just kind of drifted apart
and so you can look at a situation and
you can like really say that you know
you can answer with confidence but at
some point like you don't actually know
if any of those things are correct
and so at some point you know what i
what i do with that person is to you
know ask them like well okay like what
do you think your contribution is right
because there's a common denominator
here there's like a common denominator
of like well maybe like you're actually
the problem and it's not any one of
those things
and so this absolutely applies in dota
and in real life where like a lot of
times you know people will believe they
understand why things happen why you
can't get a job why you're you know
you're lazy why you self-sabotage why
you're forever alone why you get passed
over for promotions
um
why you wind up with like you know
friends who don't respect your
boundaries there are all kinds of things
and you can say like oh this person
doesn't respect my boundaries my in-laws
are a pain in the ass you can attribute
reasons to all kinds of things in life
because that's what our brain is
designed to do our brain is designed to
formulate patterns from uncertainty like
that's like the biggest goal of the
brain
right it's it's how we're able to tell
that clouds lead to rain because our
brain is really good at associating
coral taking correlation and attributing
causation from correlations
so for example in this how people will
even come up with little rituals right
like i have my lucky underwear well like
what's up with that it's just i don't
know like
my lucky underwear like i the reason i
failed the test is because i didn't have
the lucky underwear right so there's all
kinds of things that's what our brain
does is it tries to take
it tries to make sense of chaos
the problem is that oftentimes it
doesn't do it correctly oftentimes it
does do it correctly right because we
are pretty good we as human beings
figure things out we've sent people into
space
you know we figured out how to
develop a vaccine against covid
um i figured out how to adjust camera
and things like that and and you know i
figured things out
relating to stream
and and so it's really tricky but like
in dota hindsight is not 2020 and for
those of you like who really think
you've figured everything out in your
life
i'd strongly encourage you to question
your hindsight as well because chances
are your hindsight really isn't 20 20.
if you really think about it objectively
there's no
right answer to why you you and someone
else managed to break up right there's
no like there's no like actual objective
answer there's just opinion but that's
not what our brain tries to tell us
because the truth is that you know in a
game of dota there are so many factors
that go into it and you never really
know
which is the other reason that i respect
these guys a lot because like
in the face of never really knowing you
have to develop confidence and like
transmit that confidence to your team
and try to play this game that you will
never know if you are adequately
prepared for
right so you you prep the draft and you
kind of think about what you're going to
play and you practice and you scrim and
all this kind of stuff and at the end of
the day you never know whether you're
actually going to like succeed or not
and this is really different from most
other dimensions of life because like
you know for example for a test like if
you study enough
right and assuming that you have some
you know basic level of iq and you can
handle the course work and things like
that
you can basically work your way to
getting an a like the a is there if you
work hard enough right maybe you've got
adhd and that needs to be treated and
things like that but generally speaking
you can work your way to an a generally
speaking in life like you can work your
way to a particular goal like if you try
hard enough i think most people will end
up in a relationship if that's what they
want right like you can try really hard
and you can work on a bunch of things
and you can get there in dota like i
don't know that you can ever get there
because at the end of the day like
there's someone on the other side of the
table who could be working just as hard
as you are
and so even though you put in all this
work like it could be luck it could be
rng it could be that they had a better
idea than you did it could be that
their ideas happen to align with the
current meta
so even though your ideas are superior
that like the meta favors their ideas
over your ideas
um
you can certainly also argue that you
know the good teams are the ones that
adapt their ideas to the meta and things
like that so like the point is that you
can make a point and counterpoint for
any given thing and like you can
and you'll never know what the right
answer is
so it's just incredibly complex
and the the really shocking thing is
that you don't ever have like a a real
answer to
base things on
right so like even in in the rest of
life like we'll have like if you're at
your job you have a performance review
where people will sit down and will tell
you hey we think you need to like work
on a b and c and they may not be a
hundred percent correct but like there's
nothing like that in dota right it's not
like
you know lgd a team spirit is gonna sit
down with lgd after the tournament
they're gonna be like hey here's the
reason we think you lost we think you
need to work on like a b and c
like professional teams are not gonna
give each other like feedback
to help them improve so it's like how
the hell do you improve how the hell do
you know what works and what doesn't
work it's just it's just a mind-numbing
amount of like uncertainty and poor
quality information it blows my mind
and so then also like if we talk about
you know now there's the ti shuffle
season right so everyone's like rumoring
about what's gonna happen what's not
gonna happen by the way i know a lot
about what's gonna happen but i can't
say
um
so you know do you kick a particular
player that's another great example of
like uh
you never know
right
you never know like so like let's say
you have a poor performance at ti do you
replace someone or do you not replace
someone
is that person the reason that you lost
okay
uh is that person the reason that you
lost you you never know right like so
you can kick someone you can replace i
have theories about why people get
kicked and why teams are successful
there's so much i've learned chat
um
but it's it's like challenging right so
like just think about that question like
how do you know that kicking someone is
going to lead to success you don't
how do you know that that person was
really the problem you actually don't
like you can assess and you can make a
judgment right but you never really know
i actually don't know what eg is gonna
do i know about other teams
um
yeah
so
yeah so let me just share with you guys
like something that i did sort of notice
so here's an example of like what's hard
about dota
so i'm going to talk for a second about
doubt and confidence and regression
so if we kind of think about
um so i kind of have a hypothesis as to
why
teams
consistently
underperform
okay so like what tends to happen is
like you know at some point in the
tournament you're gonna start to doubt
your strategies unless you just dominate
everyone which is generally speaking not
gonna happen
and even if you if you do you know win
games like sometimes there are games
that you win where you're filled with
doubt and other games that you win that
you're you know other games that you
lose where you're actually not doubting
at all so that's the other really
interesting thing is that like you know
you can win a game and you can be like
we really had no idea what we were doing
and they just threw so does that mean
that your strategy is good or like
or what you know
um
but i think that one of the things
that's important to remember is that
when people doubt
uh so i'll just share with you guys like
one example of something that i kind of
notice from like understanding
psychology in the human mind
so generally speaking what will happen
is people will um
you know people will develop a game plan
as a team right and so we're going to
say like okay this is what our game plan
is we're going to do this we're going to
do this we're going to do this
and then as the game starts to fall
apart or as people begin to doubt and
you because you have to sometimes you
have to adapt too right so if your game
plan isn't working
that's also tricky like there's times
where doubting your game plan is like
really important because
doubt and adaptation kind of go hand in
hand so the person who never doubts will
never adapt because if i'm i'm sure i'm
right then like there's no reason to
change what i'm doing and so then you're
dooming yourself to a life without
adaptation
so that that's kind of interesting
because people sort of think a little
bit about like you know confidence is
like really good but it's been my
experience that actually doubting is
actually super healthy as well
and then what happens when we sort of
get into a period of doubt is i notice
that a lot of teams will actually
regress and what i mean by regress is
that you have to remember that these
players have played dota for like ten
thousand twenty thousand thirty thousand
forty thousand hours and they've
developed their own particular style and
as a team you can put together you know
a game plan but as the game plan starts
to fall apart
and you can't stick to that game plan
what tends to happen is that players
will sort of regress back to what they
know so they'll sort of go to like
defaulting to like their particular play
style and they won't necessarily play as
a team anymore
and so this is also something that we
kind of see in relationships for example
so generally speaking when relationships
are under a period of stress what will
happen is like the people in the
relationship will regress to their own
style of like how they manage conflict
right so we may be able to communicate
healthily while everything is going well
but when there's stress under the
relationship i'm gonna regress and what
i'm gonna do is like i'm gonna shut down
whereas my partner may turn to
you know talking to their mom
all the time about like complaining
about the relationship so whereas i may
sort of withdraw into myself like my
apartment partner may do something else
and so then we sort of start to get on
different pages
once the initial game plan or once like
things start to fall apart and there's a
period of stress
and so i think one of the things that i
see a lot in teams is that you know
sometimes they'll play coordinated but i
think what what sort of happens is as
things don't go their way
the way if you have to adapt on the fly
the way in which you adapt is based on
your own experience and what you've
trained and so what can happen in an
individual game of dota is you can have
five people adapting in their own way
and so when they start to adapt in their
own way because they're not all thinking
exactly the same because once again
they're not open ai
they start to become uncoordinated so
working on these kinds of things is a
lot of like what i was kind of doing um
right so helping people like coordinate
communicate helping people recognize
some of these kinds of things i think
it's just an interesting like example of
um
you know how complex esports actually is
anyway
i'm kind of all over the place today
just sharing thoughts
i don't know do people not have forty
thousand hours in dota
do pros not have that
well so some people are saying dr k
equals best coach so that that's
so there's
two ways to look at that right one way
to look at that is that eg had a good
season the other way to look at that is
eg placed 9th to 12th at ti
so what do y'all think
is it dr k or dr kw
could be either one right it depends on
your standard of judgment
what is this uh what is this man
the keck w that's the that's the spanish
dude right
that's this guy right
yeah that guy's great
okay
so next thing that i want to do is i'm
going to share with you all just a
couple of takeaways
so here's what i'd say is like some of
the most important stuff that i learned
from
uh
being at ti
so the first kind of takeaway is that
really like the only choice you truly
have in life is to move forward or not
move forward so as i just kind of said
you know you never really know
why you may have won or why you may have
lost right you get disappointed
you don't really know like maybe the job
market is bad maybe you know she's just
not that into you maybe he's still
getting out of a relationship
you never really know why things don't
go in your favor
you can hypothesize and by all means you
should hypothesize it's healthy to
hypothesize so that you can adapt
you know work on yourself etc
but at the end of the day you never
really know what you did wrong or what
you did right there's no perfect source
of information so if you guys have
setbacks in life i think the first thing
to understand is it's not about
necessarily figuring out the right
answer it's about deciding to
deciding am i going to try again or not
try again
and it's it's certainly my you know it's
been my experience and i thought about
this a lot too where people were sort of
asking me like you know i remember
ruthie was sort of asking me do you
think it was like worth your time to go
and i think it was absolutely worth my
time i mean would have been night would
it have been nice if eg won ti like
absolutely would that have made me happy
but i don't think that the experience
was a failure
just because eg didn't win ti
i think there's a lot to learn from you
know i mean i learned so much like like
it's just i'm i haven't been
this clueless about something and
learned so much in many many years so it
was one of the most educational
experiences of my life
and i think the first and only real
question is like do you move forward
like jeremy
um the second thing to understand is
that in life despite all of your best
efforts
winning is not guaranteed
and i know it's it's kind of interesting
but like we don't really view it that
way right like i think at the end of the
day you can try your best you can try to
get in shape you can clean up your
wardrobe you can get a nice haircut you
can have a makeover and you can ask out
your crush and they may still
say no
so you can and you don't have to be
participating in ti to understand this
right any game of dota you can show up
in any game of dota a pub game
um you know a ti tournament game
and like
you can be you can give it everything
you've got it doesn't matter like you
can give it everything you've got and
you may not win so the one one of the
hardest things about life is that
no matter how much effort you put in
you are never guaranteed to be
successful
[Music]
so the next thing is that
speaking about you know how to be
successful
is i want you all to understand that
like even though you can never guarantee
success there are very very concrete
things you can do to improve your
chances of success and this is sort of
the attitude that i advocate in life is
that you may not be able to get someone
to fall in love with you but you can
absolutely do a lot of things to
increase your chances
and so i think a lot of times what
happens is we get emotionally caught up
in a particular result right so like for
example
not winning ti
and that result can be so devastating
that it actually like shatters us and we
feel like not moving forward we feel
like practicing is a waste of time we
feel like you know we never really know
like i'm saying hindsight isn't 20 20.
so what's the point in trying despair
can set in all kinds of like bad stuff
can happen
but at the end of the day i think the
success the formula for success is about
working on what you can work it work on
and increasing the probability of
success as much as you can
even though you may not ever be able to
hit 100 chance of success there are very
concrete things that you can do to
improve
right so if we look at something like
dota let's forget about professional
players but like myself like i'm a 2k
player there are things that i can
improve
and so i can look at a particular game
of dota and i can say there's no way i
could have won that game and that could
have been absolutely true
but you have to be able to hold the
dialectic which means hold kind of
contrary things at the same time which
is that
it was impossible for me to win this
game
and at the same time there are a lot of
things i could do to get better
and so if you guys are feeling stuck in
life and you don't really like you know
even though you may never be able to get
to 100 chance of success it doesn't mean
that you are powerless in the face of
your circumstances there are absolutely
things that you can improve right so if
you're stuck
you know
like i'll just share like you know i
applied to medical school 120 times
and
even though i got rejected 120 times
like each time i got rejected it was
three application cycles so really three
times like i applied for to 40 medical
schools and you know each time i i
applied for the application cycle the
next year
like
i can work on that application i can
improve it and i can try to apply again
so i think if you want to be successful
in life
you know even though it's kind of
bizarre but don't shoot for a guaranteed
success just try to increase your odds
of success as much as possible
and this is kind of the last thing that
i sort of learned is that it's really
important to stay detached
and i i know that this is a big
philosophy that we have at healthy gamer
right so we we kind of advocate for
devoting yourself to your actions and
being detached from the outcomes of your
actions
and what i mean by that is that like you
know you can the most you can never win
a game of dota
all you can do is play a game of dota to
the best of your ability and if you lose
that game of dota all you can do is try
to learn from that from the best of your
ability so you can watch replays you can
practice last hitting you can think
about item builds you can talk to other
people about it you can try to improve
your odds of success and then the second
game that you go into you're still not
guaranteed success right there's there's
nothing you can do to guarantee that you
will win a particular game of dota
and so this is something that's really
really hard to do in dota and in life
but i think that this is where like you
know i'll share this but like i know
it's kind of weird but
you know dota is the same game
whether you're playing it in a pub
whether i'm playing it or artesi's
playing it or you know ame is playing it
or collapses playing it
it's the same game the heroes are the
same the items are the same the timings
are the same runes spawn every two
minutes bounty runes spawn every three
minutes the game is exactly the same
whether you're playing a pub or you're
playing in the grand finals of ti
it's exactly the same
so what is it that makes your ability to
play it so different
right what is the difference between a
pub and being in the grand finals at ti
it's all up here
and so this is the big thing that i
think a lot of people miss is that most
of life
is just what it is
but your ability to succeed at life or
crack under the pressure all comes from
here
right because what is the pressure the
game is exactly the same
right like last hitting mechanics are
exactly the same like the patches you
know for the duration of this ti is
exactly the same the items are the same
everything's the same
and in life like what we do on a daily
basis is sort of exactly the same
you have to wake up you have to decide
okay am i gonna am i gonna study today
or not study today or you know
it's all the same
where the pressure comes from where the
confusion comes from where the doubt
comes from and where the confidence
comes from is all up here and too often
in life when something doesn't go our
way what we try to do is find some
external thing to blame
right like oh like
you know the reason i don't get it i
didn't get promoted is because of like
politics at the workplace
and you can sort of say something like
that you can say okay like so gg i'm
done
but then like you know there's first of
all that may not even be true you may be
attributing a lack of poor performance
to politics in the workplace maybe you
just are not as good at your job
in someone else's
maybe you call that politics or the
other way the other thing to think about
is if it's politics at the workplace why
can't you learn politics at the
workplace why can't you learn how to be
a political animal at the workplace
so the key thing is that you know
the game of life tends to be pretty
consistent
the game of dota tends to be pretty
the big difference in terms of whether
you succeed or fail has to do with the
player
right it has to do them with the mindset
of the player it has to do with the
person who you're the player of your
life so the question is what's going on
up here
because this is what you need to work on
because generally speaking like the
rules of life are like
like kind of the same right you can work
on your resume you can apply for a job
you can get in shape you can do all
those things
it's just how you play the game
so it's all it all kind of comes down to
you
so overall it's been fantastic
you know it was an amazing opportunity
to
be able to go to ti i'm honestly like
honored
and um
you know i said as much to all the
players like you know the day after they
got knocked out of the tournament like i
was kind of telling them kind of tearing
up a little bit that it's been amazing
to like work with them over the last
year i'm really grateful for the
opportunity like i'm proud of them
i'm proud of what they've accomplished
like i understand that it's okay to be
disappointed
but just personally like it's been an
amazing opportunity and i'm so grateful
because as someone who has been playing
dota since it was a warcraft 3 mod
the ability to go to actual like go to
ti was amazing in and of itself this
year
uh because of covet and all that right
so i was like super lucky there and to
actually be able to sit down and like
talk to players right so like i've been
watching arteezy stream for years
and to be able to sit down and like have
lunch with him it's like it's amazing
um i'm so lucky i'm so lucky that i was
able to be a part of their journey even
if it is a little bit disappointing you
know it doesn't i don't i don't view the
value of my life or my time based on the
results of what happens
so sometimes people would even ask me
they'd ask like you know are you like
disappointed
right like are you disappointed in like
how the tournament went and stuff like
that
and and no i'm i'm not right because i
think or i mean like i'm somewhat i'm
not disappointed in in the team
the result is disappointing but that's
just life right like you can't tie
yourself to your results
you have to focus on like the people
involved and the effort that you put in
and what comes next that's the real test
and so you know
i i feel like this is what i'm about to
say is a little bit idiotic i was going
to say that you know the real test comes
after you lose ti
because i think that's really what what
makes us who we are in life it's not
about how we win it's about how we lose
right so if you if you think about you
know people who i respect
they're not the ones who had it really
easy had a 90 chance of success and then
like ended up getting the promotion it's
the person who failed once and then
picks themselves up off the mat and
tries to do better and decides to apply
again
and so i think this is something that
that i encourage all you all to take to
heart to and i learned i saw this lesson
being lived out and hopefully it'll
continue to be lived out
which is you know in life you can't
control what's gonna happen so the the
only thing that you really have within
your power to control as a human being
is what you do with the loss
and like i said earlier you know ti is a
tournament where there are five winners
and 85 losers it's like literally how
it's designed it's designed for the vast
majority of people to be losers
and unfortunately in life i think this
is also true that most people are the
losers
the winners are few and far between
there there are very few of us i mean
and i
you know who really have the opportunity
for success are lucky enough
to succeed
um sure is there hard work but like you
know if i think about myself it's like
did i work hard yeah some people will
say like oh you know you deserve your
success i don't know that any i don't
know that i do deserve my success
because it's not like i work any harder
than
let's say a single mother of two who's
like working two and a half jobs
right i remember having patients like
that who work actually way harder than i
do
um you know they they try so hard
they're like in a single parent
household do so much for their kids
work super hard sacrifice all of their
like personal time for the benefit of
their children
and why do i deserve more than that
person i don't
so i i don't know i mean i think in life
you know you don't necessarily get what
you deserve and i don't know what
determines what you deserve
but i all i know is that
you know
what you're worth and what i respect
people for is how you
manage what you're given whether that's
a win or a loss whether you're gracious
as a winner
and you try to support other people if
you're one of the lucky ones or as a
loser whether you pick yourself up off
the mat and decide to try again
so at the end of the day i'd say focus
on your actions and focus on yourselves
and it's okay to be a loser the truth is
that the vast majority of people on the
planet are like losers
right the number of people who are in
poverty
far outweighs the number of people who
have ultra high net worth wealth
inequality is getting worse
that's just life
so that's the that's the the life that
we you know that's the hand that we've
been dealt in life and the goal is to
try to do what you can with it
questions
will you be attending the next year bro
i attended this ti the team that i
worked with got 9th to 12th
will i be attending the next ti let's
start by asking the team
whether they want me there
you guys are making it sound like i've
got an invitation
uh
i'm kind of trolling so my relationship
with eg is fantastic
as far as i can tell anyway so i i think
we got to be really close and it was
really awesome i really loved going
really loved getting i think
irrespective of whether i go to ti or
don't go to ti or you know whatever
happens i i think hopefully we'll be
friends
for you know a long time
i i i love the players like just as
people they're just such amazing
individuals each and every one of them
you know they each have their own
particular style and and like manner
but they're all fantastic
so someone's asking do you think rtz
will ever win a ti and then i see the
next question the question right after
it is how do you focus on the process
so you focus on the process by not
asking that question
right so i have no idea if rtz will ever
win a ti statistically most professional
dota players will never win a ti
but here's what i'd say
your chances of winning ti are a lot
greater the more that you accept that
it's just a game of dota
and so one thing that i really loved was
uh ts's if you guys like listen to their
coach i think the attitude that they had
for game five was perfect
someone asked them what's your strategy
and he's like my strategy is luck
our strategy is luck
and that's honestly like when i heard
that i i was watching the game with some
people and i was like i think these guys
are gonna win
like it's it's an acknowledgement that
there's only so much you can do
right there's no strategy that's gonna
guarantee you success
it's just you show up and you play the
best god damn dota of your life and you
hope that gaben is on your side
that's the ultimate strategy to nti
i'm not kidding
like
that's why what i was you know what i
explained to people is like
you know i know it sounds bizarre but
the game of dota is exactly the same
whether you're playing a pub or game
five of the grand finals it's the same
damn game
it's just getting psyched out in your
head because it's game five of ti grand
finals that's what that's what screws
you over
so people are asking specifics about eg
i'm not gonna comment specifically on
players and like what's going on so i
think that like all of my other clients
so the relationship is public obviously
but um i think they're all they're all
entitled to privacy so i'm not gonna
answer any specific questions about
the players
i apologize
i'm happy to share my experience well
working with bulb is great dude working
with all the players was a lot of fun
um
yeah i've talked to a lot of other teams
i've worked with more teams than eg
in a manner of speaking
um
uh so just a little bit about romania so
i know that like
i mean we probably jumped on this this
bandwagon a little bit too so like we
sent out some pictures of like you know
the quarantine food and stuff like that
so here's what i'd say i think valve
gets a lot of crap
right they said like valve should do
this and valve should do that and i
think pgl also like got some crap i
think you all have to understand so i i
mean i think this is once against the
internet being judgmental like
organizing a tournament during kovid is
not easy
there are so many things that go into
like organizing a major esports event
um i mean it's hard like there's like
visas and flights and like daily covet
tests they did a lot of stuff that i
think that was actually really cool so
they gave us these little bluetooth
trackers
that sort of track
which people you're around so that if
one person tests positive they know who
that person has been exposed to
uh because they know based on your
bluetooth data so it does it's not like
a gps tracker that like tracks your
location it just knows like okay which
tracker has had contact with like which
other trackers
and so it's i think that it's like
you know like it's very very hard to
organize a tournament of this magnitude
in these kinds of circumstances
so even though there were some things
that you know i i certainly think the
tournament could have done better or
valve could have done better i mean
obviously there's room for improvement
all the time
i i think it's important to remember
that like
pulling it off is not easy to do like
sure there are problems but just the
fact that the tournament even happened
that we had a ti this year
right because like sweden basically was
like yeah that's not gonna happen and
then valve is like what do you do with
your valve
you know it's tough
it's really tough
how do you organize something on such
short notice like all the con like the
country governments are like concerned
about kovid players are coming from all
over the world
you know different countries have
different levels of like coveted
restrictions
so you know can you hold ti in a country
and like what if that country decides
like oh by the way we're not going to
allow anyone from you know
malaysia
then what
like how do you manage all that it's so
hard
um
student florida
yeah
i'm just reading questions
uh so
i if you guys i thought the seb and no
tail casts were excellent if you guys
didn't see those
like i think really listening to their
view
i think they shared a lot of information
so i'm not sure i think sam said he was
retiring right
you see i don't know
but yeah the draft panel was brilliant
i also think um
uh so did i get some dope ti merch i did
get some ti merch it was really nice and
i was also a little bit disappointed
because of all the covered restrictions
so the people who are gonna bring all
the merch like couldn't
so the other neat thing technically chat
technically
okay there's one story i can tell you
guys okay
so when we first got to ti
we got to romania
it turned out that ig and astor had
players who had gotten kovid
so
you know like
i was kind of asking people i was
talking to fly
and so i was like you know fly wow so
like that's crazy that you know these
people you know people got covered and
stuff what you know uh what happens if
one of y'all gets coveted like do you
guys play with a stand-in or what and
he's like no no no like there aren't
stand-ins like you the the tournament
rules are such that
um you can't play like you can't like
pull another player from a different
team or something like that so i i kind
of asked him you know if a team gets
eliminated and you guys like it someone
gets coveted like mid tournament can you
like pull someone from a different team
and he's like no
and he's like the the stand-ins have to
be from your pod of eight so each team
gets eight people
and so he's like
and so he was like you know if we get if
one person gets kovin then bulba's gonna
have to play if another person gets
covid then wilson's gonna be second
standing
and then if three people on the team get
to go big it looks like it's gonna be dr
k playing
and i gotta say that is the scariest
moment in my life like i've been with a
lot of scary boats and i was like tal
you're joking right and he's like no i'm
not joking he's like if we three people
get sick like you're gonna have to play
at ti i was like oh my god
and so i was so terrified
i was like oh my god that's good that's
so scary dude
but technically
technically i was on a team at ti i was
the third stand-in for evil geniuses
2k
2k mmr boys
i just got to say i'm glad i was like
man i'm glad i streamed dota like a few
weeks ago because i actually played a
little bit of dota
probably lowest lowest mmr to ever
participate at ti
i mean i imagine there may have been
people there from other teams who had
lower mmr than i did but maybe not
maybe the pod was all because like some
people had like videographers and stuff
and it's possible they've never even
played a game
someone's asking me which champion would
i play are we talking about law
yeah i hear uh train is like close like
he's like homies with a lot of these
people
yeah so a lot of people are asking am i
going to do it again so i was meaning
earlier but you know the short answer is
i don't know um so i think one of the
things that does concern me a little bit
is that
you know i was there so
you know the yearly commitment wasn't
that bad in terms of
time but i do think it
i i sometimes think a little bit about
like what i'm here for
you know like what what is my purpose on
the earth
and as personally gratifying and as hype
as it is for me to
coach a team at ti for like mental stuff
and performance
i do wonder a little bit about what the
cost is to y'all
uh you know we started healthy gamer
ultimately to help y'all
and even though it's great for me
um and a lot of fun and very educational
you know we miss three weeks of streams
um i wonder you know sometimes we'll get
posts on on the subreddit
about you know people saying like oh
like healthy gamers helped me a lot one
of my favorite ones is dr k has ruined
my life
i don't know if you guys saw this post a
while back but some dude was like dr k
has ruined my life i used to wake up
every day and like play games all day
and then like go to bed angry and sad at
myself
and then now i wake up and i exercise
and i do yoga and i go for a run and i
like try to eat healthy and not every
everything isn't perfect yet but i'm
it's ruined my old life
and so i i think a little bit about you
know what
what did peop
what could i have done with that time
instead so i i did have an amazing
opportunity to try to help
six people in an organization
um
you know do the best that they possibly
could at an
event that's very important for their
lives
i don't i'm glad for the opportunity i'm
grateful
but i do sometimes wonder you know if i
because one of the pieces of feedback
that i got is that so i joined at the
end of the boot camp and some people
felt like
you know i should have come at the
beginning to really be very effective
and so where you know if the boot camp
so could i take five weeks off like i
don't know
right
i don't know
so that i i just worry a little bit
about that kind of stuff and really
what's my so i think what it comes down
to is dharma
what's my dharma in this case
is it to help eg
to try to win ti next year or is it to
help y'all
can i do both can you guys get help
elsewhere
which is part of the reason by the way
that we started the coaching program
because like you know
that way at least
hg stuff was ongoing people continued to
be so i i wouldn't have done i wouldn't
even have even done this
if we didn't have a coaching program
because i i sort of because at the end
of the day people are so the coaches are
still helping people right
uh but dr k doesn't your mental health
matter don't you get to need to live
your life we get help the other 49 weeks
of the year yeah so i do i mean i do
live my life right i'm not like
streaming and working
100 hours a week so i do take care of
myself the sentiment is really nice i
appreciate it but the other thing that i
i frankly have to say is that
in a sense not really so i do live my
life but i think that like i had my 20s
to dick around and play video games that
was in my mind my time to
you know for myself
and um
then i had the opportunity to like
train at a couple of amazing
institutions
and so i don't know i mean i think also
getting covert earlier this year
you know life is short you never know
how long you're going to be around
so
i kind of feel like now is my time to to
give back to the world because i've
gotten a lot from it
so i do sort of feel somewhat of a
crunch in terms of trying to do as much
as i can as quickly as i can because i
really don't know i mean who knows what
what's going to happen right there's so
much uncertainty in the world
and the other thing to think a little
bit about the other thing that kind of
bothers me is
the understanding that
you could say that okay like i have many
years to help people
but one of the things part of the reason
we started healthy gamers so i'll tell
you guys just a quick story so
when i was finishing up training i got a
couple of very good job offers
and awesome awesome people awesome
places to work
um and people who are very supportive
and they said you know like hey like if
you want to
be like the expert in video game
addiction like we'll help you we'll help
you start a rehab so like create like a
rehab center for video game addiction
where people can come and like you know
you can help people like your way like
we think the work that you're doing is
awesome we want to support you in doing
it and we'll make it happen
and but the the path to that was long so
it was sort of like a 10-year plan of
like doing research and really
understanding what was effective and
what isn't effective and then
you know scoping out a site and things
like that
and so part of the reason that i turned
that down is like what worried me is
that in the 10 years that it takes to
open the door to the rehab
what happens to like all of the people
like sure like once let's say it's
probably probably would have been 10
years let's say like five years or three
years or whatever so like let's say four
years from the start of that job offer
like we open the doors and we help like
30 people a month
what happens to all the people who need
help in the four years prior to opening
the doors
and so i think the tricky thing there is
that what concerns me about taking kind
of time off from a healthy gamer's work
is i i mean i imagine you all understand
this but like there are real
consequences
if i take a year off and pick this up
again like i see we see this a lot in
our coaching program
where you know people are like on
academic probation like they're the way
that
you know i remember hearing a case a
couple weeks ago where someone was like
um is on a visa from before like it's on
a student visa
and so if they fail like one more
semester like they're like their future
is closed off
like they get kicked out of school since
they're no longer in school
they don't get to stay in the country
that they're in and they have to like
move back home and they have like no job
prospects
their family has taken out a lot of
loans so that they can come to the us i
think it was the u.s
to study
and so what happens to those people so
they're real consequences to not doing
things quickly enough
um
you know it's tough
it's tough i mean people's lives are
being made or ruined
every week and so i think our first
commitment is to y'all
[Music]
it's tough
and so once again i don't know that we
can necessarily help that person i don't
know that we can guarantee that that
person is not gonna
you know do poorly on their tests and
stuff like who knows but we're here to
try to help
and our i think our first responsibility
our primary dharma is to y'all the
esports stuff is great i think there's
to be a lot of good stuff that comes out
of it for sure
i think like i said i learned a lot i
like pages and pages and pages of notes
and things like that
we'll probably uh put together some more
concrete lectures for y'all
in terms of like key takeaways from what
i learned you know you can say whatever
you want to about the ti performance but
at the end of the day eg is a top tier
esports organization
and just their just how they work is
like quite remarkable like they are just
amazing workers
you know they think a lot they plan a
lot they communicate a lot they practice
a lot
um
and so i think that there's a lot to be
learned and a lot that you can kind of
like apply from the way that they
approach dota to your own life